## Important Notice

### The CROND NEC-endowed chair at JAIST that has developed CyPROM originally ceased to exist in March 2021, and future development will be carried out by the Cybersecurity Lab at JAIST in the new repository [CyPROM](https://github.com/cyb3rlab/CyPROM). The original CyPROM version will not be receiving any future updates, so please switch over to the new CyPROM version as soon as you are able to do so.


# CyPROM: Scenario Progression Management for Cybersecurity Training

CyPROM is a scenario progression management system that was created
with the goal of making possible advanced cybersecurity training
activities that take place in dynamic environments in which all three
training aspects can be put into practice, attack, forensics, and
defense. CyPROM is being developed by the Cyber Range Organization and
Design (CROND) NEC-endowed chair at the Japan Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology (JAIST).

An overview of CyPROM is provided in the figure below. Based on
training scenarios and target information provided by instructors, the
management module of CyPROM will initiate a set of processes that
drive the execution of those scenarios in the training
environment. Each scenario driver uses a "Trigger-Action-Branching"
mechanism that is executed independently for each participant, so that
scenario progression takes place in accordance with their individual
actions.

![CyPROM Overview](https://github.com/crond-jaist/cyprom/blob/master/cyprom_overview.png)

Next we provide brief information on how to setup and use CyPROM. For
details, including training scenario representation, please refer to
the User Guide made available on the
[releases](https://github.com/crond-jaist/cyprom/releases) page.


## Setup

CyPROM has been developed mainly on the Ubuntu 18.04 LTS operating
system; other OSes may work, but have not been thoroughly
tested. Although CyPROM can interface with cyber ranges created in
other manners, we recommend its use together with the [CyTrONE
framework](https://github.com/crond-jaist/cytrone) and its components,
which you may want to install in advance.

In order to setup CyPROM it is enough to uncompress the archive
containing the latest release into your directory of choice (for
instance, your home directory) on the host on which you intend to use
it. In case CyPROM is used together with CyRIS, we suggest using the
same host for both of them. The only requirement is that CyPROM can
access the cyber range environments that will be used during the
training activity.

CyPROM is implemented in Python, and it requires several packages to
run. We provide the list of requirements in a file that can be used to
install the included packages via the following command from the
`cyprom/` directory:

`$ sudo -H pip install -r requirements.txt`

Although the default settings should work fine in most case, before
using CyPROM for the first time, we suggest that you check the content
of the configuration file `config` that is located in the top
directory of the CyPROM installation.


## Quick Start

In order to run CyPROM with the default settings, use the following
command:

`$ ./cyprom.py`

This will execute a basic training scenario that emulates a sample
training activity with two scenarios using only harmless test actions.

To get used to the training scenario representation syntax, we suggest
examining the examples provided in the directory `examples/`, and also
consulting the user guide. In particular, a cyber range must be
created, and the target information file needs to be modified
accordingly, in order to run an actual training activity.


## References

For a research background regarding CyPROM, please refer to the
following paper:

* R.Beuran, T.Inoue, Y.Tan, Y.Shinoda, "Realistic Cybersecurity
  Training via Scenario Progression Management", IEEE European
  Symposium on Security and Privacy Workshops (EuroSPW 2019), Workshop
  on Cyber Range Applications and Technologies (CACOEâ€™19), Stockholm,
  Sweden, June 20, 2019. (in press)

For a list of contributors to this project, see the file CONTRIBUTORS
included in the distribution.
